Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're gonna be doing a display for experience point so if I go ahead and bash this god
then when he dies our experience points go up.
Fantastic.
Let's dive in see how it's done.
So again this should be a pretty short lecture because we're doing something that we've done before
which is creating a display.
It's very much the same as the health display we've done in the past.
So you're going to do this as a challenge.
So first of all you want to add to the HUD.
Basically some text for you to do the display.
Then you want to draw from the health display we've done before basically copying and pasting it and
using it adapting it for displaying experience points instead and test it out.
So pose video and have a go at this challenge okay.
Welcome back.
So we're gonna dive right on in and first of all we're gonna start with having a look at our health
display and reminding ourselves how it works.
So you can see on a wake.
It finds the health component by tag from the player.
We're going to want to change that over to the experience component instead and then update we update
the text as you can see here we're adding a percentage point we don't want to add a percentage point
to experience so that's going to change but otherwise quite simpler.
And we're going to call a different method here.
We're gonna have to introduce one for experience.
So we're gonna have to edit the experience class as well.
So but first of all I said we're going to make a change to the HUD so I'm going to go to the HUD prefab
and I'm going to duplicate health like basically our energy value label whatever it is let's just go
ahead and duplicate these two elements and then we're gonna go ahead and rename.
So first of all I'm going to rename the label to being the experience label and I'm going to relay pool
the value to the experience value so experience like so.
So that is good.
Needs to be moved down a notch.
Let's try.
I'm going to try and keep it in line using the shift key and just bring it down to be roughly right.
It doesn't have to be perfect.
I'm gonna change the text so the label instead saying enemy is just going to see say XP and you can
see why I'm using different labels now because it keeps these values aligned on the right.
And then the value.
Example value.
Let's just say something like 300 just to show that it's not going to be in percent.
So we know what that looks like.
But it is just an example value it's going to get changed by our component so I'm talking the components.
Let's go ahead and duplicate our health display in fact I'm gonna do that in the editor sometimes doing
file manipulation in the editor is better.
So control D will duplicate file even if you didn't know that it was going to be able to do that.
It's created a health display one I can go and edit health display one and I'm going to change it to
the experience display instead.
And let's also rename the class that we've got.
So pretty much gonna be the same now except that instead of the health component again you want the
experience components and we're going to call that variable the experience instead and then experience
is going to be set from getting the play with tagging and getting components of type experience.
So just substituting out the bits that aren't right and then we will go into wants to string formatting
here but instead of putting the percent less just remove the percent we still probably want to keep
no decimal places for the experience points and just in case.
And then we gonna want to do a method on experience so let's maybe let's just talk about what that method
should look like from the outside first.
So experience dots get points that's what I'm going to call it.
Whoops.
It's also completing for me.
Now it doesn't have get points I'll get points they go plural and it doesn't have it yet.
So let's see we can generate the methods and I am going to go over and have a look where it generated
it and generated it as internal rather than public and near the bottom so I'm going to move it up and
make it public but otherwise it got the type wrong as well.
It said it is gonna be a string.
So we want it to return float forget points.
And then that's basically what we're going to do we're just gonna return the number of experience points
very straightforward getter like so.
And is there anything else that needs to be done.
Just save experience display.
Go back over into the Ed. And I'm going to look at the experience value and expense value has got the
enemy health display on it.
We want to remove that and instead add on experience display like.
So now if we go ahead and hit play we did have 10 experience points at the end of last lecture and that
is indeed what's showing up my experience display so I can go on through and remember that the archer
this guy's alive for some reason don't know why he came back to life.
Maybe something had changed in his scripts anyway.
So I've got more experience you can see the experience went up I'm gonna go and kill this Archer over
here and he should give me 30 experience points or 20 experience points and you can see I'm levelling
up basically by killing these guys and I'm well I'm getting more experience points not quite leveling
up yet that he's going to be later on so we're going to do that in the coming lecture is how do we detect
or say I've got something experience points I should be a level three I should be a level five that's
gonna be the subject of the next lecture and I will see you there.